and welcome back to our varsity sports
now high school basketball preview show
we're gonna take a look at a bunch of
classes gonna start in North Dakota
right now Jason though with the boys
Class A and Saint Mary comes in as your
number one team Saint Mary a very young
team last year lost in that awesome game
in the tournament against Shanley and
overtime both teams getting over a
hundred points a lot of those pieces are
back in place they're my number one team
you got to look at century as being
tough too on the east side of the state
a lot of teams could contend and you see
it right there three through five all
those teams have a shot at winning and
for a little more on your preseason
number one we bring in now head coach of
st. Mary Brent D cook and Brett how
excited are you that your first head
coaching job involves a team like Saint
Meredith yeah I'm very very fortunate
you know we got a great group of senior
kids back from last year with a lot of
experience that definitely helped the
transition as far as me you know coming
in and taking or made things very easy
we can keep continuing on running a lot
of the same things we do and make
practice as I'm with you here too and in
college drill and they all jump in and
know what's going on right away so what
might we notice that is different with
us head coach compared to last year I
mean it'll be some minor tweaks here and
there but you know a group that won 20
games last year it's tough to come in
and change the whole time you know you
don't really want to reinvent the wheel
as they say all right Brett finally what
have you identified as your team
strengths coming into this year our
strengths definitely are is our team
speed we like to play fast we like to
play an up-tempo brand of basketball and
we have the kids who can do that and you
know our guys are are skilled at putting
the ball in the hoop so that's so that's
definitely a plus for us the biggest
things we need to improve on is is
defense and in rebounding you know
especially our help side defense we're
pretty good on the ball but off the ball
where we need to improve all right then
again Brett D cook the head coach at the
Bismarck st. Mary Saints all right well
Fargo Davies comes in at number three in
chandi's preseason Power Rankings the
Eagles won 18 games last season while
they've got some terrific talent coming
back head coach Bart Manson and company
say they've got some holes to fill too
of course Tanner Kretchman and Andrew
kosnovski back for us
both all conference members for us last
year so it's nice to have two good
guards back but we have a lot of pieces
that we really have to kind of put
together at the start of the season here
and see what we have and you know some
kids are going to need some minutes on
the on the floor just to see what they
can give and hopefully by the end of
year we can be back at where we were
last year you know you know coming off
the last year we have some high
expectations for ourselves this year we
have a pretty young group of guys and
not a lot of varsity experience but we
we've set some high goals for ourselves
well I mean coming off the last year we
had a good year made the state
tournament for the first time in Davis
history so we look to build off of that
and hopefully have an even better season
we'll talk about filling holes and you
have to mention Shanley fresh off their
first state championship the Deacons
have almost completely turned their
roster over as they enter a new season
completely turned over the roster one
guy back - played a lot for us last year
so a lot of starting from scratch work
in terms of personnel getting into the
game so hopefully just to be playing
good basketball by the end of the season
had a young group this year but we're
still really motivated and we still have
the same goals last year and that's to
make a run in the in the late season in
the postseason at EEC and at state if we
if we can do well and we're just looking
to win games and get better every day I
practice in with each game alright
elsewhere in the East many people feel
that Wahpeton is one of the strongest
squads in the EDC they features some
nice size underneath and a couple of
potential big-time scorers coach Jeff
Ralph and the Huskies talk about
handling these high expectations yeah I
think we're always that way I you know I
know if we're always picked to win it
but we always feel like we're gonna be
pretty good we feel like we have good
kids here and but you know I don't know
if the kids take that as an honor or or
you know something our challenge ahead
of them of course we have to prove
ourselves we got some tough competitors
out there but I think knowing that we
are ranked that good is going to give us
the edge mentally to go out and strive
to do what we need to do to be that to
show that we
number one kind of we're just kind of
down with a football game you gotta get
over it though but come on we got a play
a play like we did in football or
basketball we'll be good alright that's
look at class say now let's take a quick
look at Class B your preseason Power
Rankings
if you remember from last year the two
teams that made it to the state finals
Milner and four wins well they're both
back and they're both strong again
Milner with Britain Bussmann 20 almost
25 points per game seven rebounds and of
course Wyatt Munda sidekick it's hard to
call him a sidekick at 18 points a game
but very good player and then four wins
a very athletic team you know they don't
have their best player Longy back but
they've already beaten a top 10 team on
their first game of the year so look out
for four wins you see des lacks
Burlington with the only all-state
player back on their team Tanner Holt
he's almost a twenty five point eight
game score and then Cavalier a very
strong team athletically a three six
three guys on their front line and
Linton already with an impressive win to
start the season taking out one more so
that top five could change over a little
bit but those are the five I'm looking
out at the beginning of the season looks
like it's set enough to be another
exciting season in Class B basketball
it's going to crazy as always it's gonna
be somebody coming out of nowhere to to
crash the party
absolutely alright well on the girls
side the essentially Patriots are
setting out in search of a third
straight state title with you from head
coach rod Max varsity sports now
presented by shields